Solution: Hosting a Static Website on AWS S3

Step 1: Create an S3 Bucket

Log in to AWS Console: Go to the AWS Management Console.

Navigate to S3: In the search bar, type S3 and select it.

Create Bucket:

Click on Create bucket.

Provide a unique name for your bucket (e.g., my-static-website-bucket).

Choose the AWS Region closest to your audience.

Uncheck Block all public access (required for public access to the website).

Acknowledge the risks by ticking the checkbox and click Create bucket.

Step 2: Upload Website Files

Select the bucket you just created.

Click on the Upload button.

Add your website files (e.g., index.html, style.css).

Click Upload to complete the process.

Step 3: Configure Bucket for Static Website Hosting

Go to the Properties tab of the bucket.

Scroll down to Static website hosting and click Edit.

Select Enable.

Provide the index.html as the index document.

(Optional) Add an error document (e.g., error.html).

Save changes.

Step 4: Set Bucket Permissions

Go to the Permissions tab of the bucket.

Scroll to Bucket policy and click Edit.

Add the following bucket policy to allow public access:

{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": "*",
      "Action": "s3:GetObject",
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::my-static-website-bucket/*"
    }
  ]
}

Replace my-static-website-bucket with your actual bucket name.

Save the policy.

Step 5: Test Your Website

Go back to the Properties tab and copy the Bucket website endpoint URL.

Paste the URL into your browser.

Verify that your website loads correctly.

Step 6: (Optional) Use a Custom Domain

Register a domain using a domain registrar or AWS Route 53.

Create a CNAME record in your domain’s DNS settings that points to the S3 bucket's website endpoint.

Verify the domain is correctly pointing to your S3 bucket.

Step 7: Verify the Configuration

Test the website with both the S3 endpoint URL and the custom domain (if configured).

Ensure all links, styles, and assets are loading correctly.

Notes:

Ensure the bucket name is globally unique if using the default S3 endpoint.

Always validate permissions to avoid exposing sensitive data.

Use CloudFront for added security, performance, and SSL support.

By following these steps, you have successfully hosted a static website on AWS S3. Enjoy your scalable, cost-effective solution!

